Making RGB images
-----------------

APLpy includes helper functions to generate RGB images from scratch, even
for files with initially different projections/resolutions.

Reprojecting three images to the same projection
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you are starting from three images with different projections/resolutions,
the first step is to reproject these to a common projection/resolution. The
following code shows how this can be done using the
:func:`~aplpy.rgb.make_rgb_cube` function::

    aplpy.make_rgb_cube(['2mass_k.fits', '2mass_h.fits',
                         '2mass_j.fits'], '2mass_cube.fits')

This method makes use of the `reproject
<http://reproject.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`_ package to reproject the images
to a common projection. The above example produces a FITS cube named
``2mass_cube.fits`` which contains the three channels in the same projection.
This can be used to then produce an RGB image (see next section)

Producing an RGB image from images in a common projection
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The :func:`~aplpy.rgb.make_rgb_image` function can be used to produce an RGB
image from either three FITS files in the exact same projection, or a FITS cube
containing the three channels (such as that output by
:func:`~aplpy.rgb.make_rgb_cube`). The following example illustrates how to do
this::

    aplpy.make_rgb_image('2mass_cube.fits','2mass_rgb.png')

In the above example, APLpy will automatically adjust the stretch of the
different channels to try and produce a reasonable image, but it is of course
possible to specify one or more of the lower/upper limits of the scale to use
for each channel. For each lower/upper scale limit, this can be done in two
ways. The first is to use the vmin_r/g/b or vmax_r/g/b argument which specifies
the pixel value to use for the lower or upper end of the scale respectively. The
alternative is to use the pmin_r/g/b or pmax_r/g/b arguments, which specify the
percentile value to use instead of an absolute value. The two can of course be
mixed, such as in the following example::

    aplpy.make_rgb_image('2mass_cube.fits', '2mass_rgb.png',
                          vmin_r=0., pmax_g=90.)

Plotting the resulting RGB image
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If `PyAVM <http://astrofrog.github.io/pyavm/>`_ is installed (which is
recommended but not required), then if you produce a JPEG or PNG image, you can
plot it directly using the :class:`~aplpy.FITSFigure` class with::

    f = aplpy.FITSFigure('2mass_rgb.png')
    f.show_rgb()

For more information, see :ref:`howto-avm`.

On the other hand, if you are not able to use PyAVM, or need to use a format
other than JPEG or PNG, then you need to instantiate the
:class:`~aplpy.aplpy.FITSFigure` class with a FITS file with exactly the same
dimensions and WCS as the RGB image. The :func:`~aplpy.rgb.make_rgb_cube`
function will in fact produce a file with the same name as the main output, but
including a ``_2d`` suffix, and this can be used to instantiate
:class:`~aplpy.aplpy.FITSFigure`::

    # Reproject the images to a common projection - this will also
    # produce 2mass_cube_2d.fits
    aplpy.make_rgb_cube(['2mass_k.fits', '2mass_h.fits',
                         '2mass_j.fits'], '2mass_cube.fits')

    # Make an RGB image
    aplpy.make_rgb_image('2mass_cube.fits', '2mass_rgb.png')

    # Plot the RGB image using the 2d image to indicate the projection
    f = aplpy.FITSFigure('2mass_cube_2d.fits')
    f.show_rgb('2mass_rgb.png')
